# 2024.09.09-2024.09.15

## Algorithm
### 1. 题目
```
80. 删除有序数组中的重复项 II
```
### 2. 题目描述
```
给你一个有序数组 nums ，请你 原地 删除重复出现的元素，使得出现次数超过两次的元素只出现两次 ，返回删除后数组的新长度。

不要使用额外的数组空间，你必须在 原地 修改输入数组 并在使用 O(1) 额外空间的条件下完成。

 

说明：

为什么返回数值是整数，但输出的答案是数组呢？

请注意，输入数组是以「引用」方式传递的，这意味着在函数里修改输入数组对于调用者是可见的。

你可以想象内部操作如下:

// nums 是以“引用”方式传递的。也就是说，不对实参做任何拷贝
int len = removeDuplicates(nums);

// 在函数里修改输入数组对于调用者是可见的。
// 根据你的函数返回的长度, 它会打印出数组中 该长度范围内 的所有元素。
for (int i = 0; i < len; i++) {
    print(nums[i]);
}
 

示例 1：

输入：nums = [1,1,1,2,2,3]
输出：5, nums = [1,1,2,2,3]
解释：函数应返回新长度 length = 5, 并且原数组的前五个元素被修改为 1, 1, 2, 2, 3。 不需要考虑数组中超出新长度后面的元素。
示例 2：

输入：nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3]
输出：7, nums = [0,0,1,1,2,3,3]
解释：函数应返回新长度 length = 7, 并且原数组的前七个元素被修改为 0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 3。不需要考虑数组中超出新长度后面的元素。
 

提示：

1 <= nums.length <= 3 * 104
-104 <= nums[i] <= 104
nums 已按升序排列
```

### 3. 解答：
```
func removeDuplicates(nums []int) int {
	n := len(nums)
	slow, fast := 2, 2
	for fast < n {
		if nums[slow-2] != nums[fast] {
			nums[slow] = nums[fast]
			slow++
		}
		fast++
	}
	return slow
}
```
### 4. 说明
采用双指针，fast,slow 都从2开始，由于是有序数组，对比nums[slow-2] 与 nums[fast] 是否相等
如果相等，则代表超过2个字符相同，则slow应该保持不变，fast继续移动，再进行下一次比较
如果不相等，则代表没有超过2个字符相同，这个时候slow和fast应该都移动一个元素，并且要将fast的值移动到slow的位置。

## Review
### 1. 原文链接
[Necessary Comments](https://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2017/02/23/NecessaryComments.html)

### 2. 翻译

It is well known that I prefer code that has few comments. 
I code by the principle that good code does not require many comments. 
Indeed, I have often suggested that every comment represents a failure to make the code self explanatory.
I have advised programmers to consider comments as a last resort.

resort 采用的手段

I recently came across that last resort.

I was working with a member of our cleancoders.com team, on a particular issue with our site.
We were trying to implement a feature that would inform a customer who bought one of our videos, what other videos they might want to purchase as well. 
The feature would find all the videos that had been purchased by others who had bought that video, and would pick the most popular and recommend it to the customer.

The algorithm to do that can take several seconds to run; and we didn’t want the customer to have to wait. 
So we decided to cache the result and run the function no more often than every N minutes.

Our strategy was to wrap the long running function in another function that would return the previous result from the cache and if more than the N minute had passed, would run the algorithm in a separate thread, and cache the new result. We called this “choking”.

The long running function was called the “Chokeable Function”, and the wrapping function was called the “Choked Function”. 
The Choked Function had the same signature and return value as the Chokeable function; but implemented our choking behavior.

Trying to explain this in code is very difficult. So we wrote the following comment at the start of the choking module:

; A Choked function is a way to throttle the execution of a long running
; algorithm -- a so-called "Chokeable Function".  The Choked function
; returns the last result from the Chokeable Function; and only allows
; the Chokeable function to be called if more than the Choke-time has
; elapsed since its last invocation.
Now imagine the unit tests! At first, as we were writing them, we tried to name those tests with nice long names. 
But the names kept getting longer and more obscure. Moreover, as we tried to explain the tests to each other, we found that we needed to fall back on diagrams and pictures.

In the end we drew a timing diagram that showed all the conditions that we’d have to deal with in the unit tests.

We realized that nobody else would understand our tests unless they could see that timing diagram as well. 
So we drew that timing diagram, along with explanatory text, into the comments in the test module.

; Below is the timing diagram for how Choked Functions are tested.
; (See the function-choke module for a description of Choked Functions.)
;
; The first line of the timing diagram represents calls to the choked
; function.  Each such call is also the subject of a unit test; so they
; are identified by a test#
;
; In this test, the chokeable function counts the number of times it has
; been invoked, and the choked function returns that counter.  The expected
; return value is the below the first horizontal line in the timing
; diagram.

; 1  2  3   3.5  4  5    6  Test#
;    aaaaa
;---------------------------
; n  n  1    1   1  1    2
;---------------------------------------------
;AAAAA           AAAAA
;     CCCCCCC         CCCCCCC
;
; Where: A is the algorithm time. (The chokeable function run time)
;        C is the choke time
;        n is nil
;        1 is "result-1"
;        2 is "result-2"
The names of the tests then became, simply, test1 and test2, up to test6; referring back to the diagram.

We were pretty pleased with the result; both the code and the comments.

So, this is one of those cases where there was no good way for the code to be self documenting. 
Had we left the comments out of these modules, we would have lost the intent and the rationale behind what we did.

This doesn’t happen all the time. Indeed, I have found this kind of thing to be relatively rare. 
But it does happen; and when it does nothing can be more helpful than a well written, well thought through, comment.

### 3. 点评
这篇文章，Bob大叔讲了必要的注释的重要性，包括方法和测试，有必要甚至需要流程图来进行说明测试的流程。

## Tip
### 标题


## Share
### 关于领域驱动设计，大家都理解错了
[关于领域驱动设计，大家都理解错了](https://www.cnblogs.com/xiaoweiyu/p/18284660)