# 2023.02.09-2023.02.15

## Algorithm
### 1. 题目
```
8. 字符串转换整数 (atoi)
```
### 2. 题目描述
```
请你来实现一个myAtoi(string s)函数，使其能将字符串转换成一个 32 位有符号整数（类似 C/C++ 中的 atoi 函数）。

函数myAtoi(string s) 的算法如下：

读入字符串并丢弃无用的前导空格
检查下一个字符（假设还未到字符末尾）为正还是负号，读取该字符（如果有）。 确定最终结果是负数还是正数。 如果两者都不存在，则假定结果为正。
读入下一个字符，直到到达下一个非数字字符或到达输入的结尾。字符串的其余部分将被忽略。
将前面步骤读入的这些数字转换为整数（即，"123" -> 123， "0032" -> 32）。如果没有读入数字，则整数为 0 。必要时更改符号（从步骤 2 开始）。
如果整数数超过 32 位有符号整数范围 [−231, 231− 1] ，需要截断这个整数，使其保持在这个范围内。具体来说，小于 −231 的整数应该被固定为 −231 ，大于 231− 1 的整数应该被固定为 231− 1 。
返回整数作为最终结果。

示例1：

输入：s = "42"
输出：42
解释：加粗的字符串为已经读入的字符，插入符号是当前读取的字符。
第 1 步："42"（当前没有读入字符，因为没有前导空格）
         ^
第 2 步："42"（当前没有读入字符，因为这里不存在 '-' 或者 '+'）
         ^
第 3 步："42"（读入 "42"）
           ^
解析得到整数 42 。
由于 "42" 在范围 [-231, 231 - 1] 内，最终结果为 42 。
示例2：

输入：s = "   -42"
输出：-42
解释：
第 1 步："   -42"（读入前导空格，但忽视掉）
            ^
第 2 步："   -42"（读入 '-' 字符，所以结果应该是负数）
             ^
第 3 步："   -42"（读入 "42"）
               ^
解析得到整数 -42 。
由于 "-42" 在范围 [-231, 231 - 1] 内，最终结果为 -42 。
示例3：

输入：s = "4193 with words"
输出：4193
解释：
第 1 步："4193 with words"（当前没有读入字符，因为没有前导空格）
         ^
第 2 步："4193 with words"（当前没有读入字符，因为这里不存在 '-' 或者 '+'）
         ^
第 3 步："4193 with words"（读入 "4193"；由于下一个字符不是一个数字，所以读入停止）
             ^
解析得到整数 4193 。
由于 "4193" 在范围 [-231, 231 - 1] 内，最终结果为 4193 。

```

### 3. 解答：
```
func myAtoi(s string) int {
	var result int32
	var neg int
	var index int
	for ; index < len(s); index++ {
		if s[index] != ' ' {
			break
		}
	}
	if index >= len(s) {
		return 0
	}
	if s[index] == '-' {
		neg = -1
		index++
	} else if s[index] == '+' {
		neg = 1
		index++
	} else {
		neg = 1
	}
	for i := index; i < len(s); i++ {
		num := s[i]
		last := result
		if num >= '0' && num <= '9' {
			result = result*10 + (int32(num) - '0')
		} else {
			break
		}
		if result/10 != last {
			if neg == -1 {
				return math.MinInt32
			} else {
				return math.MaxInt32
			}
		}
	}
	return neg * int(result)
}
```
### 4. 说明
1. 首先是去除左侧的空格字符。
2. 然后取符号，空格去除之后第一个就应该是符号位。
3. 再遍历剩余的字符，必须是数字，如果遇到非数字就跳出循环。
4. 在循环中需要判断是否已经溢出，`result/10 != last`这个判断比较巧妙。
5. 最后将结果与符号位相乘并返回。

## Review
### 1. 原文链接
[TDD Doesn't Work](http://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2016/11/10/TDD-Doesnt-work.html)

### 2. 翻译
TDD Doesn’t work.

TDD不起作用。

It doesn’t? That’s odd. I’ve always found it to work quite well.

他不起作用吗？那奇怪了。我一直觉得它很管用。

Not according to a new study.

根据一项新的研究，事实并非如此。

Another study?

另外有研究？

Yeah, an in-depth study that repeated another study that was done a few years back. 
Both showed that TDD doesn’t work. The new one uses a multi-site, blind analysis, approach. It looks conclusive.

是的，一项深入的研究重复了几年前做的另一项研究。
两者都表明TDD不起作用。新的研究采用了多点盲分析的方法。这看起来是决定性的。

Do the authors consider it conclusive?

作者认为这是结论性的吗?

The authors recommend more study. But they’re probably just being humble. The data is pretty convincing.

作者建议进行更多的研究。但他们可能只是出于谦逊。数据很有说服力。

What is the data?

数据是什么？

The study shows that the claims about TDD are false. 
TDD doesn’t make you go faster; it doesn’t reduce defects; and it doesn’t help you to write better code.

这项研究表明关于TDD的研究是错误的。


That’s very strange. I think TDD does make me go faster, improve my code, and my accuracy. 
I know others who have said the same. So I’m puzzled about why this study would show something different.

Well, it did. DHH was right. TDD is Dead.

Hmmm. OK, so what exactly did the authors study? How did they come to this conclusion?

I don’t know, I just know there was a study.

How did you find out about the study?

I read a blog about it. At the end the author said that the study has made him reconsider TDD. He used to think it worked.

OK, well, let’s look at the study. Hmmm. Yes, right here it says that they compared TDD to TLD.

What’s TLD?

Test LAST development. That’s when you write your unit tests _after you write your code._

See? So the study showed that it’s better to write your tests last!

Hmmm. No, that doesn’t seem to be what the study showed. In fact, the study found that there was no significant difference.

OK, fine. So if I write my code, and then write my tests it’s just as good as TDD.

Well, no, not quite. At least that’s not what the study showed. The study asked the folks doing TLD to work in “small chunks”.

Small Chunks?

Yes. The folks doing TLD would write a little bit of production code, followed by a little bit of test code.

Oh. I see. So they’d write production code for 10 minutes and then write unit tests for ten minutes or something like that.

Well, maybe. But, see here, it says that all the participants were trained in TDD. And then some of them were asked to do TLD in small chunks.

Right. OK. So, my statement still holds. They wrote production code, then they wrote unit tests; and it didn’t matter.

So let me ask you how you would write unit tests, _after production code; but in small chunks._

I’d write some production code – enough to pass a test or two – and then I’d write those tests.

How would you know how much code would pass a test or two?

I’d think of a couple of tests to pass, then I’d write the code that would pass those tests. Then I’d write the tests.

And since you had been trained in TDD; that kind of thought process would be natural to you; wouldn’t it?

Um. Hmmm. I think I see your point. The TLDers were doing TDD in their heads, and then just reversing the order.

_Right. In order to work in small chunks, they had to imagine the tests that they’d be writing; so that they could write production code that was _testable.

So maybe this study wasn’t studying what they thought they were studying.

It seems to me that they were trying to study the _order of writing the tests, more than the process of TDD. In their effort to reduce the number of variables they inadvertently eliminated them all. They forced the participants doing TLD to use the TDD process of short cycles, and that forced the participants to drive the production code by thinking about tests first._

OK. Maybe. But still, those TLDers did write their tests last. So at least the study showed that you don’t really have to write the tests first – so long as you work in very short cycles.

Sure. The really effective part of TDD is the size of the cycle, not so much whether you write the test first. The reason we write the tests first is that it encourages us to keep the cycles really short.

So what the study showed is that people who work in short cycles don’t have to worry about writing tests first, so long as they continue to work in short cycles.

That’s probably a fair statement. However, look here. The problem that the participants were solving was _The Bowling Game. This is a very small problem. In fact, they said the entire programming session took three hours._

Is that important?

Sure. The benefit of writing the tests first is _disciplinary. Writing the test first keeps your cycles short; and keeps your coverage high, over long periods of time._

OK, but if you had enough internal discipline to keep your cycles short, then the study shows that it doesn’t matter if you write your tests first.

That’s a big “if”; but sure. The study shows that if you take a group of people, trained in TDD, and then tell them to keep everything the same, including the size of their cycles, and just change the ordering of the tests, then in three hours of programming you won’t see much difference.

Yeah. Yeah. That’s what the study shows.

So, really, the study was making a distinction without a difference.

Well.. Heh, heh, they found no difference, so I guess that’s right.

So the study didn’t show that TDD doesn’t work, did it?

No, I guess not.

What _did it show?_

I think it showed that you can’t interpret the conclusions of a study without reading the study.

### 3. 点评
这篇文章Bob大叔通过对话的形式向我们展示了对待任何文章和观点都应该有刨根问底的态度。在不没有阅读研究的原文内容的时候不要轻易相信别人对研究的总结。

## Tip
### 标题


## Share
### 标题
